FIX THE ENTIRE PROJECT FOR LOCAL VS CODE DEVELOPMENT — DO NOT REBUILD OR REDESIGN THE WEBSITE.

I have exported this Replit project and need the exact same website to run reliably on my local Mac in VS Code.

Project:
THE Understated
Workspace:
Fashion-Creative-Studio
Website:
artifacts/the-understated

CURRENT PROBLEM:
The project installs with pnpm, but the local Vite server fails because the generated Replit configuration assumes Replit-only environment variables and native dependencies.

I encountered these errors:

1. Rollup:
Cannot find module @rollup/rollup-darwin-arm64

2. esbuild:
The package "@esbuild/darwin-arm64" could not be found

3. Tailwind:
Cannot find native binding from @tailwindcss/oxide

4. After fixing the native dependencies, Vite fails with:
PORT environment variable is required but was not provided.

5. When PORT is supplied manually, Vite then fails with:
BASE_PATH environment variable is required but was not provided.

The current vite.config.ts contains Replit-specific mandatory checks like:

const rawPort = process.env.PORT;

if (!rawPort) {
  throw new Error('PORT environment variable is required but was not provided.');
}

const basePath = process.env.BASE_PATH;

if (!basePath) {
  throw new Error('BASE_PATH environment variable is required but was not provided.');
}

OBJECTIVE:

Make the project properly portable so it works in BOTH environments:

A) Replit
B) Local macOS Apple Silicon / VS Code

Do NOT ask me to manually fix individual errors one by one.

Do NOT redesign the website.
Do NOT remove any existing website functionality.
Do NOT replace the project with a simpler implementation.
Do NOT create a new project.
Do NOT downgrade the framework unnecessarily.
Do NOT switch from pnpm to npm.
Do NOT delete the existing workspace architecture.

TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:

1. Inspect the ENTIRE monorepo before making changes.

Check:

- package.json
- pnpm-workspace.yaml
- pnpm-lock.yaml
- artifacts/the-understated/package.json
- artifacts/the-understated/vite.config.ts
- Tailwind configuration
- TypeScript configuration
- Vite configuration
- React configuration
- all workspace dependencies
- Replit-specific plugins/configuration
- environment-variable usage
- build scripts
- dev scripts

2. Fix native dependencies correctly for macOS Apple Silicon.

The current machine is:

macOS
Apple Silicon / arm64
Node.js 20.20.2
pnpm 12.4.2

Ensure the dependency graph correctly installs the required platform-specific packages for:

- Rollup
- esbuild
- Tailwind CSS Oxide

Do NOT solve this by randomly adding native packages unless they are actually required by the dependency graph.

Prefer the correct package-manager/workspace configuration and optionalDependencies behavior.

3. Fix vite.config.ts properly.

The local developer must NOT be required to manually provide Replit-only variables.

For local development:

PORT should default to 5173.

BASE_PATH should default to "/".

For Replit:

continue respecting the environment variables when they are provided.

For example, use safe defaults rather than throwing when PORT or BASE_PATH are absent.

Keep Replit-specific plugins conditional on REPL_ID as they currently are.

4. Make sure the dev command works from the workspace root.

I want this to work:

pnpm --dir artifacts/the-understated dev

and ideally also provide a convenient root-level development command if appropriate.

5. Make sure the production build works:

pnpm --dir artifacts/the-understated build

6. Make sure TypeScript works:

pnpm --dir artifacts/the-understated typecheck

7. Inspect for any other Replit-only assumptions.

Search the entire project for things such as:

process.env.PORT
process.env.BASE_PATH
REPL_ID
Replit plugins
Replit-specific paths
Replit-specific runtime assumptions
hardcoded server URLs
hardcoded development URLs
environment variables that are mandatory only on Replit

Make local defaults where appropriate without breaking Replit.

8. Check the workspace dependency graph.

Do not modify unrelated workspace packages unless necessary.

The website must continue using the existing shared packages.

9. Preserve all existing UI and functionality.

The website's:

- design
- animations
- typography
- 3D experience
- responsive behavior
- routing
- components
- collections
- lookbook
- navigation
- assets
- styling
- React structure

must remain intact.

This task is ONLY about making the generated project technically correct and portable.

10. Actually TEST the fixes.

Do not tell me the project is fixed just because files were changed.

Run:

pnpm install

then:

pnpm --dir artifacts/the-understated typecheck

then:

pnpm --dir artifacts/the-understated build

then start:

pnpm --dir artifacts/the-understated dev

Verify that Vite actually starts successfully and reports a localhost URL.

If the dev server starts, verify that the application responds successfully at the local URL.

11. Check for runtime/browser errors.

After the server starts, inspect the application for:

- module errors
- missing assets
- failed imports
- React runtime errors
- routing errors
- CSS/Tailwind errors
- Three.js/WebGL errors
- console errors
- blank page issues

Fix genuine errors you discover.

12. Do not stop after the first successful command.

The goal is:

INSTALL → TYPECHECK → BUILD → DEV SERVER → BROWSER LOAD

all working.

13. Do not make me guess environment variables.

If the application genuinely needs environment variables beyond PORT and BASE_PATH, inspect the source and create/document the appropriate local .env.example file with safe non-secret defaults where possible.

Do not invent API keys, credentials, database URLs, payment credentials, or other secrets.

14. Preserve production safety.

Do not hardcode secrets.
Do not commit credentials.
Do not expose private API keys to the frontend.

FINAL REQUIREMENT:

Do all investigation and fixes yourself.

Do not merely give me terminal commands.

Do not say "this should work."

Actually run the relevant checks and continue fixing until:

1. pnpm install succeeds
2. typecheck succeeds
3. production build succeeds
4. local Vite dev server starts
5. localhost loads the THE Understated website
6. there are no blocking runtime errors

At the end, give me ONLY:

- what you fixed
- files changed
- exact command to run the website locally
- exact localhost URL
- whether typecheck passed
- whether build passed
- whether the browser loaded successfully

IMPORTANT:
Do not redesign or alter the creative direction of THE Understated website during this task. This is strictly a technical portability, dependency, configuration, build, and local-development fix.